[MUSIC]
>> Alexis Abril: So let's take
a little bit more complex example.
Okay, if we wanna create
new animals that's cool.
I wanna create new animal, give it a name.
But we probably want more
abstracted layers, right?
If you have a shape, maybe you want
a parallelogram to inherit from shape.
And then maybe you want square
to inherit from parallelogram.
That if you want many,
many more constructs,
many more layers,
we can do that a little bit differently.
Well, it's the same concept but
more times.
So here's an example
inheritance ladder if you will.
We have animal as our base construct.
We have chordates,
which will inherit from animal, and
we have mammals which
inherit from the chordates.
This is the structure that we
wanna create conceptually.
We're gonna show you how to do that.
So the differences between
the three things, all animals eat,
chordates are a subclass of animals.
They will all have spines and
mammals are subclass chordates.
They will all have hair.
What this is gonna do,
it's gonna look something like this.
We're gonna have our mammal function,
which will have a prototype,
pointing to this object in space
right now, this new object.
Chordate will have the same thing and
so will animal.
They will all have,
they will be constructor functions
with their respective prototypes.
Now this doesn't set up any
kind of link between them yet,
we have to do that for us.
The part that we care about is,
each object's proto property should
point to where we want to inherit from.
If we don't set this part up,
everybody's proto property
would point to the base object.
And we wouldn't really get
any kind of cool inheritance.
This is the chain we want to that way
when something comes to a new mammal and
we wanna say, hey I want you to eat
something, it's gonna walk up the proto
chain until it hits animals prototype and
then invoke the eat function.
Okay that's a cool graphic, but
what does this really look like.
So let's set up our proto
chain in JavaScript.
We have our animal constructor.
We're just gonna set the name,
and we're to give ourself
our prototype method, eats.
Then we're gonna say,
chordate is a function.
This is gonna create this little spot
in memory down below, not linked yet.
It's not doing anything yet.
It's just a new constructor function.
And we're gonna say,
prototype equals new animal.
This is what's gonna link
our prototype to animal.
We've created a new object in memory
with its proto property
pointed to animals prototype.
And they we're gonna point our
proto pointer to that new object.
It's gonna create this type of link for
us.
And then we're going to give
ourselves a has spine property,
which will just say true.
And we're gonna do the same
thing again for mammal.
We're gonna create our
constructor function.
Have a prototype with a new chordate,
this will link the two.
And then we're gonna give it,
it's own has hair equals true.
So that way when we finally come along and
say something like, m equals new
mammal dog, cuz that's a really
clever name for a mammal, is dog.
We're gonna create a new object
with its proto property.
And m is gonna be able to have
all the properties that we have.
Has hair, has spine, and the eats
function will all be accessible on m,
because we've set up our inheritance tree.
>> Speaker 2: I'm a little confused why
you have to use a prototype for eats,
when you define eats up there.
Wouldn't eats be inherited by
chordate when you set it up?
>> Alexis Abril: Would eats
be inherited by chordate.
So how would you,
how would you write this otherwise?
>> Speaker 2: Well if you just removed
prototype from an Animal.prototype.eats
>> Alexis Abril: So you're saying
animal.eat equals function,
iss that what you are thinking?
>> Speaker 2: Right,
when you set up chordate,
would it automatically inherit eats or-
>> Alexis Abril: Let's think about
that for a second.
So here's our animal function, and if you
wanna say animal.eats where would eats go?
It would go right here, right?
It'd be animal, and
then a pointer to eats.
But this is down on this function, so when
chordates or anything else, tries to walk
up the inheritance tree for eats,
it's gonna go to each proto object but
it's not going to go down to constructor
function and look for things here.
It's going to go here.
This doesn't have eats.
Go to the base object,
it doesn't have eats.
So it's gonna return that type error,
method not found or
undefined, because we've
hidden it down here.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Alexis Abril: Now sometimes
you do wanna have methods or
properties on the function themselves,
if you're building some kind of helper
library, that you're using internally, but
you have to have a very specific
reason for this kind of stuff.
This is more what we would consider
a static method, not in the strict sense,
but you can think of it conceptually
as this is on instances of objects,
instances of animals, and
this is on animal, capital A, itself.
Does that make sense?
Cool, good question.
>> Alexis Abril: Okay now there
are some problems with this.
One of the problems you may have
seen from this wall of text,
is in the constructor we're doing
the same thing over and over and over.
We have to say this.name.
There's a way around this.
It's just not, the concert doesn't exist
because it's not true inheritance,
you can't have methods inheriting from
other methods in the strict sense.
This is when you see libraries
providing things like super plugins.
But it's not inherit in
the language itself.
But it would makes sense if you
inherit chordate from animal,
you probably want to invoke your own
constructor logic, set up your spine.
But you want to invoke animals
constructor logic as well.
You don't wanna have to rewrite that
code every single time you're setting up
something to inherit from.
So you can do that this way.
So here's our base animal but
inside chordate, we don't wanna call,
we don't wanna set up
this.name equals name again,
instead we just wanna do
whatever our parent does.
So here is a really really
nice use of call and apply.
Animal is just a function.
So we are going to invoke
the animal constructor.
But we're gonna set its context to
whatever we are, whatever this is.
And remember, one of our rules for
this is the new keyword.
So when you say var c equals new chordate,
we're setting the context within this
function here to the new object.
And we're passing that into
our constructor above.
So this.name will still
be our new object.name.
So the same functionality is achieved
in the set context correctly,
except we don't have to
rewrite this.name equals name.
Does that make sense?
This is really useful because typically,
you're gonna have a more elaborate
constructor function than
this.name equals name.
You probably want to
actually set up some things.
But you don't want to re implement
that same constructor logic over and
over and over.
Interjection?
>> Speaker 2: Why can't you
just do chordate equals animal?
>> Alexis Abril: Why can't you
do chordate equals animal?
I want a whiteboard.
[LAUGH] Why do you guys think you
can't do chordate equals animal?
>> Alexis Abril: Or
what repercussions would that have?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE] Everything
that Chordate has, right?
Then you just have it pointed at animal?
>> Alexis Abril: Yeah.
You'd be pointing to the same function.
Remember, everything's a pointer.
So in this case, if you had animal equals
function, this.name equals name, chordate
would just point, these should really be,
if you wanna consider these functions and
the animal points to a function here,
chordate would point to the same function.
>> Speaker 3: So basically that
would become a problem when you
went to the next step of
chordate.prototype.spine is
true, then you've set
spine true on all animals.
>> Alexis Abril: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Got it.
>> Alexis Abril: Exactly.
>> Alexis Abril: Good question.
Okay and then of course, doing the same,
you can do the same thing for a mammal.
You get down to mammal, say chordate.call.
We're setting up the same
inheritance link, but
without having to reimplement
our constructors every time.
Okay, we'll talk about our
shared properties example,
our issue with shared properties really,
really quick.
So, we're gonna construct that
function we saw earlier, but
we're gonna do it in our
little 2D representation here.
So if Animal equals function.
Remember, it's not going
to evaluate the function.
It's not going to execute it.
It just knows that there is a function.
So function, by default,
all functions have prototypes, again.
Not by default, they just do.
So animal, and we have our prototype,
which is gonna point to an object.
We have dog equals functions, so we're
gonna get the same construct in memory.
And then when we say
dog.prototype equals new Animal,
we're gonna first, dog.prototype equals
new animal, so dogs prototype object,
its proto property is gonna point
to animal's prototype, and we're
going to invoke the animal constructor
with the context of dog.prototype.
This is our context here.
Because we're using the new keyword,
this newly created object
is gonna be our context.
So this dot offspring will be,
this is our array object here.
So far so good?
Then, when we create our three new dogs,
here's dog one, dog two,
dog three, new objects with their proto
property pointed to dogs prototype.
Remember this is invoking
the new key word here, for
dog new dog, is invoking dogs constructor.
And dog's constructor is not
setting offspring to this, and
it's not recalling animals
constructor with its context.
It's an empty function.
So this is just creating new objects
with proto properties pointed to
dog's prototype.
So when we invoke
a dog.offspring.push pup,
we're saying, dog1.offspring.
Do you have offspring?
No, walk up to protochain.
Sure do.
Here's the offspring array,
push pup, so push this guy.
>> Alexis Abril: So
when you say dog2.offspring.
When you look this up later, you're
gonna say dog2, do you have offspring?
Nope.
Walk up the proto chain.
Do you have offspring?
Yes.
What is your offspring?
It's gonna be an array containing pup.
>> Alexis Abril: So you're right,
at face value just looking at the code,
I wouldn't have expected this.
But in memory, it makes a lot more
sense when you're just drawing it out.
Yes, okay, I see what's going on.
Does this is make sense?
Yeah, I really do draw
a lot of this out still.
So it's a very helpful tool.